in order to unravel the mysteries of the
geckos foot it was necessary to be able
to measure the sticking power of one
single hair from it and to do that you
needed the techniques borrowed from the
most advanced physics like these the
results were astonishing they discovered
that theoretically a gecko walking
upside down on the ceiling could support
a backpack weighing 90 pounds
the huge adhesive strength comes from
the structure of tiny velvety hairs on
each of a geckos feet scientists simply
haven't been looking closely enough all
was finally revealed under the most
powerful microscope a geckos foot is
covered in half a million hairs called
CT each is much much finer than human
hair
you
further magnification shows that at the
tip of each air there are even smaller
fibers called spatula 10 million would
fit on a pinhead each gecko foot has
more than a billion of these split ends
there are intermolecular forces at work
here at this level of intimacy the
molecules from both the gecko and the
surface become charged and are attracted
to one another
not exactly magnetism more like a
molecular embrace indeed the contact is
so close that in a sense the Gecko
almost becomes part of the object it's
sticking to but finding out about the CT
of the spatula is only half the story
it was discovered that if the gecko is
to stay on it has to place its feet in a
very precise way if I revolve this one
on a sheet of perfect it has to
continually readjust the position of its
feet if it's a snail and if I revolve it
very quickly it wouldn't have time to do
so would almost certainly drop off